# people_and_firearms

On average, each state adds about 100,000 new weapons to its arsenal each year. Much research has been conducted on crime and guns given the rise in homicides and suicides each year. While there is a lot of research on the topic of the effect of gun sales, little is said about the determinants of gun sales. Therefore, in this work, we performed exploratory research to determine whether there is a direct relationship between state demographics and gun sales.

The average age, racial makeup, income, and education levels are the main demographic factors we have selected for our study. We focus on the sales data of handguns and long guns collected by the FBI over the last two decades. We also include permits issued and background checks that are conducted annually. These factors provide some light on the State Department's vigilance in observing the sales of firearms. In our paper, the term ‘Permit’ refers to the legal permission to buy, hold, or carry any type of firearm as long as they are legal. The variable of background checks refers to any check conducted for any reason. This variable could potentially include repeat checks to the same individual or checks that did not result in the sale of a gun. Handguns and long guns are classified according to the Bureau of Alcohol, Firearms, Tobacco, and Explosives. We focus on a variable that measures these two categories' combined sales.

We demonstrate that the average education level of a given state correlates to the sales of firearms. This variable, combined with historical political leaning of the state are factors that drive the sales of firearms. States that historically vote republican tend to acquire more firearms as the education level (and the acquisitive power) of the state increases. States that historically vote democratic tend to decrease their consumption of firearms as education level increases. We also control for other factors such as geographic region and urbanization indexes to show these factors do not show any correlation with the sales of firearms.
